# Project Data Lake

## Project Description
In this project, apply Spark and data lakes to build an ETL pipeline for a data lake hosted on S3. 
Load data from S3, process the data into analytics tables using Spark, and load them back into S3. 
Deploy this Spark process on a cluster using AWS.

## Project Datasets
You'll be working with two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:

- Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
- Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data

### Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

## Schema for Song Play Analysis
Using the song and log datasets, you'll need to create a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables.

### Fact Table
- songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
- songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

### Dimension Tables
- users - users in the app
- user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
- songs - songs in music database
- song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
- artists - artists in music database
- artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude
- time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
- start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

## Files
- etl.py reads data from S3, processes that data using Spark, and writes them back to S3
- dl.cfgcontains your AWS credentials
- README.md provides discussion on your process and decisions