# Udacity - Data Warehouse Project

## Description
In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on data warehouses and AWS to build an ETL pipeline for a database hosted on Redshift. To complete the project, you will need to load data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift and execute SQL statements that create the analytics tables from these staging tables.

## Datasets
- Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
- Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data
Log data json path: s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json

### Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID.

### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

## Schema
Fact Table
- songplays - records in event data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
- songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

Dimension Tables
- users - users in the app
- user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
- songs - songs in music database
- song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
- artists - artists in music database
- artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude
- time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
- start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

## Files
- create_table.py create your fact and dimension tables for the star schema in Redshift.
- etl.py load data from S3 into staging tables on Redshift and then process that data into your analytics tables on Redshift.
- sql_queries.py define you SQL statements, which will be imported into the two other files above.

## Run
- Create tables - create_tables.py.
- Execute ETL - etl.py.